We have a component to fix.
This is based on something that I
saw in the real world of a portal
switcher to take you from two different
parts of a giant web application.
It's cute, it's got this little
insurance logo with umbrella,
they look sophisticated, and no one knew
that there was accessibility issues.
This has been on a site for
a while, or a similar thing.
And so for our exercise,
we're gonna look into this widget and
see how many issues we can find.
There is a version, so when you hover
over it, you can get to the other portal.
There's an insurance agent portal and
a broker portal.
Different roles that these
customers have or users have.
So there's a version in this
Next.js repository, and
there's a completed file in there,
or at least a more complete file.
There's also a version
of it on StackBlitz.
If you wanna play with it over there,
it saves you from even having
to clone this repository.
So I am going to go and find it in our
project directory to make some changes.
But let's do our little
investigation here.
We'll do it together.
So, yeah, so we can keep things moving.
But the first thing I'm gonna
do is try to tap into it.
So I can reach this logo.
It's got a focus outline, but
I can't get to the portal switcher.
I skipped right by it.
And why is that?
So I go in here and
I Ctrl click and Inspect.
I'm gonna go look at it in the dev tools.
Zoom in a little bit.
So we've got div, div, div, anchor.
That's what I could focus on.
That anchor element, if I look at
it in the accessibility inspector,
it doesn't have any text in it.
And if I look at why, is missing alt text.
So that's a bummer.
That means that that link won't have any,
I have no idea what that link
does in a screen reader.
And then when it comes to
the portal switcher stuff,
there's just divs on divs on divs.
There's some SVG in here.
If I open up the portal switcher,
it injects another div.
So there's nothing for
me to reach and operate here.
It's using some mouse events to show it.
And the real component was just like this.
It had a few more links in it, but
I couldn't get to it
with the keyboard at all.
So let's fix that.
Let's see how many issues we
can find with this thing.
We're gonna fix this component.
We were looking at what goes
into accessible user interfaces,
and we have one for an insurance agent
portal that has a little drop-down.
We saw some of the issues with it.
Let's go ahead and
look at a more complete version.
I wouldn't say it's perfect,
but it's got a start.
So, in this version that's
embedded right in our page,
I can tab onto that link for
the insurance agent portal.
That was a div with a click
event on it before.
I can also get onto a button for
this Change Portal part of the drop down.
That wasn't there before.
So we'll go to compare
the code in a second.
But I can hit the Enter key
now to toggle this portal, and
it's basically showing and hiding this
neighboring link on the keyboard.
Whereas before I could only
reach it with the mouse.
I couldn't even get to this link,
unless I was a keyboard user.
So this now has the ability to toggle
with the Enter key and the Escape key.
And I skip by that link
when it's not active.
So let's go look at what
that code looks like.
In VS Code,
here's the original portal switcher.
So it's a React component,
it has some state to track whether
it's showing the portal or not.
It's got a div that wraps it, and
a div just inside of that wrapper element
that has onMouseEnter and
onMouseLeave that set that portal state.
And that was the only way to
get into that component before,
which is why keyboard users, it's like
too bad, so sad, can't get into it.
So I had to add an affordance is what we
call that button that I made that you
could toggle.
We'll look at what that looks like when
we go to the more complete component.
So this also had a link.
Wrapping the logo, it was missing
an alt attribute probably with,
insurance company, the name of the thing.
What is that logo?
Whose company is that?
That'd be helpful especially
because it's inside of a link so
this text will become
the accessible name of that link.
And as far as the other widgets on here,
there's a div with an onClick, it's like,
well, this is kind of suspect, this div
onClick equals window.location.href.
It's actually pretty easy
to delete all that and
say a href instead, close out that link.
It simplifies, I can actually make
it accessible by removing code and
just swapping out that div element for
an anchor.
And that's pretty easy.
It's gonna have a default
focus style in this example.
You have to watch out for
CSS that suppresses focus outlines.
The real world version of this.
There's a style sheet on this page
that just turns off focus outlines for
everything and so I had to add a focus
style back in so be aware of that.
This Change Portal text that's just kind
of hanging out here in a div
by itself with an icon.
And then there's another div
with an onClick down here.
This one is another instance
that could be just a plain href
instead of a div with a click event on it.
So we could change that.
So those two are improved.
There's probably some more semantic things
that we could do in addition to we need
something to tab onto.
I don't wanna use the links that are there
because those are gonna navigate to pages.
I need something extra that
I can tab onto and toggle.
So an approach for
this is to wrap something in a button.
That chevron,
that was the thing that visually you
could say, there's a drop down here.
So that's a pretty good candidate for
wrapping in a button or something.
So this iteration of the solution
has that Change Portal text and
the icon are wrapped in a button.
And so
that button has an aria-label on it.
It's maybe not super necessary
because there is text on here that
says Change Portal.
Sorry, my auto-complete.
So Change Portal is probably find text for
this button.
If the button was just around the icon,
then the RA label could be nice,
if it was instead of wrapping
the text just the icon,
then toggle portal or
something could be helpful.
But there's text on screen,
we might as well use that.
So here's where we can make this more
accessible, is now we have this onKeyDown.
That's the button's reachable, and
now we have an event that
we're paying attention to.
I could potentially use a click event
here, but I don't wanna do it for
every click.
I just want it to work
on only certain keys.
So let's look at this toggle handler.
It's an event handler.
And if I pass in the event
object as a parameter argument,
I can inspect what key the user pressed.
So event, I can use the code property
to check which key was it, and
there's strings for
all the different keys.
Enter, space, arrow right, arrow left,
escape, all of those things.
And I can do things like prevent
default if that button is in a form or
it's scrolling the page
when I hit space bar.
You can kind of prevent some of that
stuff with event.preventdefault and
then I can change the state.
So that button when I click it,
if I'm pressing the right keys,
I can update that state variable.
And then also,
to make it a bit more ergonomic,
I added an onKeyDown on the wrapper
element where the mouse events were.
So anytime you're within this widget,
if you hit the Escape key,
whether you're on
the original toggle button or
you're on that broker portal
link that's the one that shows.
Anywhere within this widget,
if I hit Escape, I can close it.
So I kind of expanded my event
area to be the wrapper element.
And that's kind of an ergonomic thing.
So that if I'm anywhere within this
component, the Escape key will apply.
So for that, I match on event.code is
equal Escape, and if the portal is
showing that state variable,
then I'm gonna set that state to false.
And I can handle focus.
So if I am on that child blink,
I'll show you what I mean.
If I open the portal and I'm down here
on broker portal and I hit Escape,
I wanna send focus back to that
button that will be visible.
Cuz otherwise,
my focus will just kinda go, poof.
It'll get lost.
Cuz that element is not rendered when
the state variable doesn't match in React.
Let's see what that looks like.
So I'm gonna inspect.
So we don't actually
see the broker portal,
like React and
JSX are injecting it on demand.
When that state variable matches,
it's not just this version anyway,
is not just showing and hiding it
with CSS, it's actually inserting and
removing it from the DOM.
So if we remove DOM that we're focused on,
whoops, now our focus,
who knows where it's gonna go.
In Chrome, it'll go nearby.
In Firefox, it'll probably kick you all
the way back up to the top of the page.
So we're doing some focus management
by sending focus back somewhere
that's reliable when it deletes that node.
So we could see it go in and out.
So this code, toggleButton,
that is using the useRef
API in React,
which is your new best friend.
If you didn't already know,
it's amazing for accessibility,
it gives you the ability to put refs.
So here's this ref toggleButton.
So I have a reference.
And I can use that as a kind of
a doorway to the underlying DOM APIs.
So React uses SyntheticEvent, which is
like, if you ever worked with jQuery and
struggled to understand whether you
had a jQuery object or a DOM node,
SyntheticEvent is kind of similar in
that it's like wrapping your elements.
And you aren't on the raw DOM
node unless you're specific.
So the ref API, you can get access to
that raw DOM node with ref.current.
And you can have collections of refs,
they could be an arrays.
Ref is really powerful.
You can use it for other things too.
It's a great utility.
But when I have a ref, I can send focus.
So this focus is actually
a DOM API method.
And if that element's present,
I can send focus to it.
So this is kind of a pattern,
at least in React, of how you manage
focus with React elements,
kind of in combination with DOM APIs.
So yeah, there's kind of some
fundamentals in here that are helpful,
like alt text,
links that actually work as links.
Buttons that we make
sure have labels in them.
And then moving focus around.
I think one area that this could go even
further is looking at the ARIA on it.
It's pretty basic right now,
just showing and hiding an element,
kind of sending focus around.
We could potentially look at
whether it needs a dialogue roll or
some more ARIA on here.
We're gonna tackle ARIA
in the next section.
So this was kind of the start of
some keyboard focus management.
But really, we're kind of looking at every
accessibility issue we can find within
a component.
That takes a few passes with
tools like the axe tooling.
I really like Storybook for
working with stuff like this,
cuz you can isolate a component and
test it on its own.
You also need to test the component
integrated with other components,
especially if focus is going between.
So we'll look at that and
automated tests a little bit later.
Any questions so far?
>> Just to make sure for the ARIA values,
do they always have to be strings because
I see that aria-expanded is string true or
string false?
>> Great question.
So, what gets rendered in
the browser is usually string.
There's also Boolean attributes like inert
where it's basically is the attribute
present or not.
The value doesn't really matter.
In React and TypeScript, in some
instances, it will complain at you if
you have a string that should be,
I don't know, a number or a Boolean.
There's some aria-value things for sliders
that kind of caught me by surprise.
When you use TypeScript,
it will tell you what it expects.
Otherwise, strings are usually fine.
React lately has been
complaining about tabindex.
It really wants that to be a number.
And if you use TypeScript,
you'll know about that.
If you use JSX in React, strings are fine.
It's very weird.
So I always thought strings were fine.
I have had to convert some of
my attributes to be numbers and
Booleans lately, because I`m using
a lot more TypeScript lately.
And it`s actually really awesome for
accessibility,
because a lot of the types are built in.
So it can catch some accessibility issues,
if you use an HTML element,
use an attribute that's not allowed on
that element, TypeScript can tell you.
It can also be a hindrance sometimes,
like we saw on the web app workshop,
inert is not really working
well in React right now, so
I had to do a workaround with refs.
It's kind of a pain right now, but
on the flip side of that TypeScript can
be pretty helpful in a lot of cases.
I didn't love it for a long time,
now I'm into it cuz it can be helpful.
So this whole string number thing,
you just satisfy the TypeScript compiler
a lot of times and make sure that what's
getting rendered is what you expect.
Is it giving the right
state in the browser and
assistive technology which
we can usually look at in
the Chrome Dev Tools Accessibility
inspector, it'll show you.
Cool, any other questions
before we move on?
We're gonna come back to this example and
write some automated tests for
it a little later.